>> Jason Lengstorf: We've built
the site so we can just build it again.
I guess I can use NPM run build.
And NPM run build is going to
put everything that we're
doing into this public folder.
So let me cash close this,
we've got a public, and
this builds on our actual site.
So we've got the about,
another post contact, hello world,
all the things that we expect to be there,
along with the static folder, and
then a bunch of JavaScript chunks,
and all that good stuff.
This is what webpack is generating for us.
And this is why it's nice
to use Gatsby because
this type of configuration is not trivial.
And trying to set this up in webpack,
it takes a lot.
So being able to just know that this
is being done for us is very nice.
So once we've got this,
we can do Gatsby serve.
And now we can see the built site.
We can see this is actually the server
side rendered generated site.
And a couple things that are nice to
look at here are on the network tab.
Let's go to fast 3G, I can do my load and
you can kinda see this load's pretty
darn quick, that's a good thing.
We're also seeing that we're barely
loading, we're not loading much here.
So as we move around you can also see,
did everybody see that?
This is kinda hard to notice,
but check this out.
So watch this timeline up in the top.
Okay, so we've loaded,
here are the assets that we got,
here are the things that we got.
Now watch what happens when
I hover over about up in
the top right of this timeline.
You see that?
We just pre fetched the about page so
that it feels instant when you load to it.
And that way your users,
when they're on this site,
they don't have to wait for things to
load, things are just available to them.
It's a really really nice workflow and
it makes using a Gatsby site feel instant.
It's a really nice experience.
So this is the kind of stuff
that we're trying to do
to make everybody's life
just a little bit easier.
So if I go back out you can
also see that the images and
stuff start preloading, too.
Watch the bottom of the panel down here.
As I start to hover over things,
you can see the blogs start to prefetch
in the background so that when I
click on it it's already available.
This is that kind of stuff that we're
talking about with the purple pattern and
the various performance optimizations
that are just baked into the core of what
Gatsby does.
This is so that you, as a developer,
never once have to think about
how the heck prefetching works.
But in case you're curious,
what this ends up doing is up at the top.
We'll start adding these
link rel prefetches
which pull resources in to be used later.
So that's kind of the fast version.
Go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: Does it only
prefetch on hover then?
Is that sort of what triggers it or?
>> Jason Lengstorf: No.
It'll prefetch on a handful of things.
So I had the slow 3G installed.
So on a faster connection,
it detects network latency using
browser feature detection.
On a fast connection,
it'll also use the intersection observer.
So as I scroll down
the page when it saw this,
it would say hey what's that,
let me let me prefetch that.
So it kind of determines how
much bandwidth you have.
And then we'll attempt to prefetch
things as they become available.
Another thing that I didn't really show
here is the the lazy loading of these.
So let me make this much slower.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And so on a slow 3G,
now remember this took like 40 seconds
when we were in development mode.
It's taking, let's see, we got
something on the screen in six seconds.
And this is on slow 3G.
This is what most of
the world is gonna see.
This is another reason why I like,
one of the reasons that I came to Gatsby
is because I actually see Gatsby having
the potential to be kind
of a global equalizer.
Because the sites that
you build in Gatsby,
they work with JavaScript disabled,
they work offline with the plugin, and
they will, they only take
a few kilobytes to download.
So for
somebody who is in a developing country,
if they have to walk to their friend's
house who has a Wi Fi hotspot and
download their sites before they go home,
a Gatsby site is only gonna
cost them a little bit if
they're paying by the megabite.
And it means that that site's gonna to
continue to work when they leave so
that they can actually use
the internet even if they don't
have access to a reliable internet
connection or they pay by the megabite.
So that means that something that we
want to use like modern technology,
React, Graft UL, all this fun
stuff that we want to play with,
is also something that is completely
functional and honestly ideal for
people who don't have strong
Internet connections or
who don't have access to
a reliable WiFi connection or
who are living on pay per megabyte data,
in really slow 2G, 3G zones.
So it's another one of those things of
making the right thing the easy thing.
By default, when you build a Gatsby site,
you're gonna build something that's good
for somebody no matter where they
are in the world trying to load it.
And I really, really liked that
about Gatsby as a technology.
So anyways my little
feel good diatribe aside,
we're now ready to publish this and
put it up on the Internet now.